=== PAGE 177 ===
Unit Ten: Lifestyle Lesson 1 Manners Around the World A. Look at the pictures. Where are the people from? What is common among them? Do you notice any difference? What difference is most obvious here? B. Read the texts describing the manners and etiquettes in different countries. Then work in pairs to identity their similarities and dissimilarities with those of your own country. Dining Sit where you are instructed to sit. Be graceful and polite when taking food with chopsticks. Don't make much noise when eating or drinking soup. Don't play with chopsticks or point at anyone with them. For a formal dinner wear formal dress. Gift DO present and receive things with both hands. Politely refusing a gift before accepting it is the norm in Chinese culture, so don't be discouraged when initially someone refuses your gift. White flowers are not good as gifts as they symbolise death. Greetings Shake hands softly as a firm handshake could be considered a sign of aggression. It may make your Chinese friends feel uncomfonable. Greet the most senior first and gradually others. Children are expected to greet you rather than you geeting the children.
=== PAGE 178 ===
172 Dining Arrive on time. Wear casual clothes. Offer help to the hostess with the preparation of the meal and clearing up aner the meal is over. The guest is served first, then gradually the oldest male, rest of the men. children, and finally women. DO not begin to eat or drink anything until the oldest man at the table has begun. South Afri- can people usually do not use left hand in taking meals, If you are invited to a dinner wait until your host(ess) indicates you to begin eating. You may use a piece of bread on a fork to soak up sauce or gravy. Never hold the bread in your fingers to do this. You may eat chicken pizza with your fingers if you are at a barbecue. or in a very informal setting. Other- wise always use a knife and fork. Gift In generals South Africans give gifts on birthdays and Christmas. It is common for several friends to share the cost of a gift, If you are invited to a South African's home, bring flowers and good quality chocolates to the host family. It is customary to take a small gift for the host if invited to a home. This is usually flowers or chocolates. Some send people may flowers in advance of a dinner party but it is equally acceptable to take them on the day. Gifts arc opened on receipt. English For Today Greetings When dealing with foreigners, most South Africans shake hands with a smile while maintaining eye- contact. Some women do not shake hands and merely nod their head, so it is best to wait for a woman to extend her hand. Men may kiss a woman they know well on the cheek in place of a handshake. Greetings are leisurely and are marked by good cheers. A handshake is the most common form Of greeting among the British people and is customary when you are introduced to somebody new. It is only when you meet a friend of the opposite sex whom you havent seen for a long time, that you would give a kiss on the cheek.
=== PAGE 179 ===
Lifestyle Dining Use your right hand when picking up and eating food; never your left hand, which you keep at your side. Do not place your left hand on the table. and do not use it to pass food. People use spoons, forks and knives, if necessary, and hardly any utensils. Gift Gifts are given frequently to show love, gratitude and respect. Anytime you are invited IO someone's place, bring a gift. The most common gifts are food items such as pastries, chocolates, sweets and cookies. Dates are also commonly given gifts. People also value food and arts and crafts items from other cultures. 173 Greetings The most common greeting is salaam alaykum (May peace be upon you'), to which the reply is waalaykum as salaam Cand peace be upon you too'). Shaking hands (between men) is an important gesture of mutual respect. Ilugging and kissing on the cheeks between same sex people in social situations are quite common though it is strictly forbidden between men and women. C. D. E. Read the text in Activity B again and put a tick mark against the country to which the activities mentioned in the columns above apply. Country South Africa Greer Britam Middle East shake gging the cheekg fiowet5 at social right hand to take handg to knives and of the time Work in pairs/groups. Make a presentation on Bangladeshi etiquette of dining, exchanging gifts, and greetings. Listen to Ms. Antara Gomes, an English teacher in a college. She is telling her students about table manners. (Audio recording) Transcript: Hello guys Hope you all are well. You know manners and etiquette are so vital in our life. We cannot claim ourselves civilized when we lack them. Every society has particular manners and etiquettes to follow. Etiquette is also very important
=== PAGE 180 ===
174 English For Today nowadays when you are online or surf in the virtual world. Netizens i.e. habitual or keen users of the Internet, call it netiquette (etiquette you show on the net). Anyway. today I'm going to share with you something related to manners ù table manners. Ilave you heard of Kyle Ingham? Kyle Ingham is the Founder and Editor of The Distilled Man, an online channel that helps young people become well-rounded gentle persons. Read what he says about table manners and see whether you maintain any Of these manners. Table Manners 101: Basic Dining Etiquette May 20, 2017 | By Kyle Ingham When you hear the words "table manners" you may just think of arbitrary rules tor rules' sake. But at their core, manners are just about being considerate and respectful to the people around you. Table manners are particularly important. Let's face it. People are usually disgusted when you're eating with a person chomping and slurping and burping and splattering. Because of that, table manners have always been a good 'tell' about someone's overall refinement, their upbringing, and self-awareness around other people. Why Table Manners Matter Often the reason someone might be concerned about your table manners isn't because your lack of manners bothers them. Instead, they might be worried it bothers someone else. For instance, when you eat dinner with your friend's family for the first time, slie may not eare that you behave like a total buffoon at the table when you're just around him/her but s/hc may worry that the parents will be bothered by your poor dining etiquette, because good manners are a sign of respect. You may not practice perfect table manners at home but these ere needed when you eat out or have a dinner in somebody's house.
=== PAGE 181 ===
Lifestyle 175 F. That's also why nowadays employers will often take you out to dinner as part of the interview process. Again, maybe the hiring manager doesn't care if you have bad table manners, but they may worry that your potential clients Will be bothered that you eat like an absent-minded caveman. so, my thought is, even if you don 't practice perfect table manners at home, you should know how to behave for those important occasions. What is your opinion about table manners? ò Do you agree with Mr. Ingham's explanation on the importance of table manners? Why/Why not? Mr. Ingham has given some tips on table manners especially when you are eating with others. His tips cover a number of areas which are mentioned in the box. Read each of the tips from number 1-7, match them with the title of the areas given in the box and write them in thc blank spaces. Thc first one is done for you. Excusing yourself from the table Being part Of Lhe group Eating food you don 't like Requesting help Staning the meal Body-language Chewing and talking Today we're going to talk about some simple guidelines that will help keep your table manners on-point throughout an entire meal. Listen to the audio or read on. When you're just about to sit down at the table, that's a good time to silent your phoneù you don 't want to be THAT GUY whose phone is going Off throughout the rneal. You should also wait until everyone is gathered at the table before sitting down. And sometimes it's good to take a cue from the host or hostess. Make sure you don't take a special seatù like the head of the table, or inadvertently steal the best seat. I. Body language When you're sitting down, your posture should be upright and attentive. Make you are not slouching or leaning back in your chair. 2. As much as you might want to just tear into your food when it comes.. .wait until everyone else is served before starting. If it's a very formal dinner, you should also wait until the host or hostess gives the indication to start eating. But usually, you're safe to start if everyone's food has arrived.
=== PAGE 182 ===
176 3. English For Today Just because the butter is just close enough that you can grab it doesn't mean you should. Stretching across the table or reaching over someone else's plate is a big 'No'. If something is within arm's length and you can reach it without disturbing someone else's space, that's 0K. Otherwise, politely ask them. "Can you please pass the...?" Also, remember that when someone asks for the salt. make sure to pass both the salt and pepper. ..and vice versa. 4. What if you're at someone's house and they serve something you don't like? Rather than avoiding it altogether. the polite approach is to serve yourself one or two bites, and at least taste it. (Unless you are so allergic that it makes your face puff up like a basketballù which is not polite either ). It's okay to leave a little bit on your plate to show that you tried it, and just HOPE theyre not too insistent on you having seconds. 5. You probably already know that you shouldn't talk with your mouth full Of food. Try to avoid smacking and chewing loudly. and keep your mouth shut while chewing. ne easiest way to do this is to just take smaller bitesù especially ifyou know you're going to be in and out of conversation throughout the meal. If you need to get something out of your mouth (like a piece of gristle i.e. food stuck between your teeth), you can use your fingers to quickly and discreetly take it out. But uy to covcr your mouth with your hand or your napkin while you're doing it. Once you grab the piece of food, quickly and quietly put it on the edge of your plate. 6. If you need to go to the bathroom or get up from the table during the meal, you don't need to ask for permission. You also don't need to say where you're going. Just say "excuse me, I'll be right back." Then get up quietly and leave the table without disturbing the others.
=== PAGE 183 ===
Lifestyle 7. 177 Dinner is meant to be social. Make sure you take part in the dinner conversation, and also take note if it seems like you're eating much faster or much slower than everyone else. By the end of the meal, sorne people take a few glasses of water in gulps and some people consider it worthy to belch out publicly, which are weird. If drinking water is a need, take in little sips without making any sound and wipe your lips. Don't sneeze or make any foul sounds to clean your throat in front of others. Make sure you are not scattering food around your plate. Nobody likes to experience a messy dining table. Now, read how Mr. Ingham concludes his tips on table mannars. To understand the conclusion you need to fill in the gaps in the text below with suitable words taken from the box. G. H. gentle person keep up Conclusion appreciate accepted proper realize behave offended manners I know sometimes day, these guidelines and etiquette seem arbitrary. But at the end of the behaviorù so that we can all established as a universal set of civilly around each other. Not everyone is going to be if you don't follow these guidelines. But once you learn these basic table rnanners, you that they're not diffcult to So why not practice many people will dining etiquette? It certainly isn't hard to try, and that you are conscientious enough to behave like a proper at the table. Reflect on your everyday dining practices and write whether these tips are helpful for you. If yes, why; if not why not? Forma-23 , English Fot Today, Classes XI-XII and Alim
=== PAGE 184 ===
178 A. English For Today Lesson 2 Etiquette Netiquette Read the following statements. Whose statement do you like the most? Why? How do you feel about the others? Kristi When anend any wedding or birthday parry, always wait for 'hefeoσ. As soon as the food is served, take my portion and immediately after J'vefinished. leave. I have no time 10 wait jur others. Besides. don òt know Others, so why wait? Sayem live in aflat in a ten storied building in Dhaka. In the lift often see my neighbours, seldom etchange greetings with them. They are neither my friends nor relatives. Some people may not like it, but who cares ? Monju I love driving my car at high speed and blowing horns, ochersò responsibility to make mob' for me, My car is very expensive! Sometimes / an/ annoyed by other vehicles, They ignore rny honking! Abir / òm very special at home. My parents and other members of my family do everything as I desire. From food to furnitute- epetythtng goes by my choice, Mim Hla [ 'm afiòee-wi/l agent. don i mind expressing my opinions or intervening even when my elders are speaking themselves. Topon That day one of my teachers jbrhade me to shake my legs. don i know what is wrong With it. I also don i think need to say òthank you òand òplease every rime take a service or gift from someone, Gratefulness lies i" the heart, Why do you need to express it? Bidhan My father always asks my grandma what to huy when going for weekly grocery. My mom also asks her what to cook we never go anywhere keeping my grandma alone, love her so Bokul ['m very choosy about the Lod that tear. Ivisit someone and find different types of food on the dining table, never take any food that I don like, Even when I'm asked to take the food I say ù I won i take ⁿ as I don tt After it choice. Tinko My friend. Nabila. is addicted ro Facebook. Even when she attends classes or visits any social program, she never lets a second go without visiting Facebook. She never speaks to others and rarely makes eye contact with anyone around her Kanta J don like social nenyork media as people are very showy there. Sometimes they post frems that / dent feel like seeing. always remember that social network media steal which we can give to our study. Shayeri When {'m online or on any social networking site. / have liberty. So express my own ideas as like. read or see something that does not go with my choice. I take a hand. Since reo one sees me face to face. / enjoy my liberty. Shammi My Facebook account is mine. Who me you to tell me what t should post, what language should use. or what opinion should express,'
=== PAGE 185 ===
Lifestyle B. Read the following statement. 179 "I make a distinction between manners and etiquette. Manners as the principles, which are eternal and universal, etiquette as thc particular rules which are arbitrary and different in different times, different situations, different cultures." - Judith Martin Work in pairs and identify which statement in Section A is related to manners and which one to etiquette. C. Below you will see parts of a story told by a Spanish writer, Pedro Pablo Sacristσn. Work in pairs and reorganize them to a cohesive text. When you have finished. set a title of the story. People from their practice you. so kind pleasure, don't mention etc. asto ot The mschine started if, huge in became tough each or with so th8t their started to help others without B for service. affections, unknown and. eventually. they were from practices. neds. speech end they uEd using language. Since machine men. gnd soon they the and The found the crept up to the mgchine rewind it so people get to behaviour. man considered these so. hc mission ru that polite benefits from hig em,rtΘ. people these words and thus ho would be ofhis to behavior and by else. He so understand month' hard work. ho succeeded in inventing machine he desired long time. Once upon time. 1 Strange man who highly bothered to othegtò happineg.s_ His OWn personal tnte*St Was at any cost import*nt to him. Neither Was he polite man, nor did he other people ro be polite to each other. in he hated the courteous polite people around him and Tbug he hared a few exprùions Lke piece, tbònk you. don" mention it etc , It wubled him a lot when people around smiling to use these expressiotw As a the exploded. scatteringan the it gathered into moments. the lenos 't,rted coming down. rain. and ended up in the sea. 'hat. everyone that good for keeping pcop:e together in proving
=== PAGE 186 ===
1 so D. E. English For Today Read the story again and answer the following questions. i, ii. iii. What is the story about? What made the strange man to invent a machine which would destroy all the good words? How did the machine change people's attitudes? Why did the girls start exchanging polite words with each other? What was the consequence? Think whether anyone you know needs to improve manners and etiquette. Make a plan on how to help him or her.
=== PAGE 187 ===
Lifestyle Lesson 3 Food and Culture ISI A. Read the following excerpt from Syed Mujtaba Ali's travelogue. Work with a partner and discuss the following questions: I. What is your favourite dish? 2. How is the dish prepared? Give a recipe for preparing the dish. 3. Why do you like this particular dish? Syed Mujtaba Ali, was an acclaimed Bengali author, academic and linguist. He was a travel enthusiast and his travelogues are regarded as precious gems in our Bangla literature. At some point of time between the two World Wars, Syed Mujtaba Ali set out on a ship from India on a journey to Europe. Leaving Sri Lanka behind, hc sailed across the Arabian Sea, then along the coast of Africa, before reaching the Suez Port. Syed Mujtaba Ali's time in Egypt was punctuated by a number of funny anecdotes. both about the people and the pyramids. The following excerpt is from Syed Mujtaba Ali's travelogue, Tales of a Voyager (Jolay Dangay) where he gives a charming and insightful description Egyptian food and language. Nazes Afroz translated the following excerpt. of Our Bengali meals consist of five flavours of foodùbitter, savoury, hot, sour sides and desserts. English eat only sweet and savoury preparations. They cannot Qomach the hot stuff, and even less the sour. And possibly never even know that bitters could be consumed. Hence English cuisine seems bland and tasteless to us. But the English can bake good cake-pastry-pudding, something they learned from the Italians. In my opinion, our sandesh and rasogolla are such delicacies that there is no reason Io go bananas over those desserts. Egyptian cuisine is a close cousin oflndian food of the Mughlai variety. I might not be able to prove the theory but aner tasting food in many countries, it is my fim belief that imitating the Taj Mahal Of cooking, that the Mughals perfected after coming to India (one should not forget that they could not master it in their own land as the Indian spices were unavailable in their motherland of Turkestan), the people in Afghanistan, Iran, the Arab land, Egypt, even Spain, have been trying to build their own little Taj ofcuisine. The reach of this gastronomy has spread to East Europe's Greece, Ilungary, Rumania, Yugoslavia, Albania and even Italy.
=== PAGE 188 ===
182 English For Today I discovered all these theories many years later. At present Abul Asfia and Claudette Chenier brought back samples of various dishes on a platter. I saw there was murg musallam, sheesh kebab and five or six kinds Of unknown items. The known ones did not really carry the aroma of Kolkata food but it mattered little. After eating Irish stew and Italian macaroni on the ship, our palates had loq all taste; so seeing these dishes made our mouths water. My heart was craving for a little boiled rice, fried bitter gourd, sonamoog daal or yellow lentil, fried potol [pointed gourd] and fish was I daydreaming? Just rice and fish curry could do, but these were not available outside Bengal. so What was the point Of such mourning? So I showed them the items from the platter I did not want. Peeking at the next table, I saw one man was about to start eating two cucumbers on a plate. How could two cucumbers, whatever the size might be, be enough for someone's dinner'? I could not solve that puzzle by wracking my brain. That too, he was sitting at a table in an eatery supplemented by sauces and chutneys. Even in a sophisticated country like England. people would bite into an apple right after buying it off the street. They did not have to enter a restaurant to eat it with a fork and knife with sauces and chutneys... At that point I saw, instead of chewing the cucumber, the man just pressed it in the middle and some polau-like substance mixed with a few things oozed out. I was surprised to no end. T told the restaurant owner that whatever be my luck, T ought to eat those cucumbers. Two cucumbers were served. Afier pressing them a little with a fork. the polau came out. The polau was mixed with small pieces Of meat (what we call keema), slices of tomato and grated country cheese. I realised that all the stuflings had been put inside the boiled cucumber and finally it was fried in ghee. The same principle as our dolma of fish and potolùthe only difference was here they had stuffed the cucumber with polau╗ meat, tomato and cheese. Thus this was a truly superlative creation. And what taste! It melted the moment it touched rny tongue. I had never eaten such a five-in-one dish.
=== PAGE 189 ===
Lifestyle 183 I also tasted another unique itemùEgyptian broad beau seeds. You must have seen the massive kegs of oil in the Alibaba film, In two or three such kegs. they put broad bean seeds and boil thern overnight. Aner adding olive oil and some spices, they serve them from the morning. We ate them at midnight. What taste! I can Qill feel it in my mouth. Our pumpkin seeds are no match for this delicacy. Even Paul and Percy agreed that the soybeans of China would be far behind, never mind surpassing it. We heard that the king and the poorùeveryone ate those beans twice a day. The restaurant owner told us that some pharoah liked it so much that he had forbidden his subjects to cat these beans! Hence the reason why people talk about the whims of the pharaohs. I picked up its Arabic nameùfool. The following is an incident from the following morning but as it is related to this item, 1 will narrate it here. Dozens of nationalities like the French. the Greeks. the Italians, the English lived in Cairo. So the city was adorned with signage in languages from around the world. The following morning when we were exploring thc nooks and crannies of the city, I came across a signboard that said: Fool 's Restaurant Paul, Percy and I noticed it together. We were lost for words and finally we burst out laughing, 'A restaurant for stupid people?' What did it really mean? At that point I suddenly remembered the word t÷ol had been used in Arabic for the broad bean dish. Not rneaning stupid people. It meant this shopkeeper sold broad bean seeds. The three of us peeped inside the shop to see that all the cuqomers had a plate of fool in front of them. Source: https://speakingtigerbooks.conyblog/excerpt-syed-mujtaba-ali-in-egypt/
=== PAGE 190 ===
184 English For Today B. Now work in groups and answer the following questions. a) What are the differences between a Bengali cuisine and a British one? b) How was Syed Mujtaba Ali feeling after checking the menu of the restaurant? What was his heart craving for? c) What were the ingredients in the "five-in-one" dish? d) What did the signboard "Fool's Restaurant" actually mean? C. Write the meaning of the following phrases and discuss them in pairs. go bananas, break the ice, beat around the bush, break a leg, get out Of hand, cry over spilled milk, piece of cake. pass with flying colours, hold your horses, spill the beans, couch potato D. Write a summary of the story in 100 words.
=== PAGE 191 ===
Lifestyle Lesson 4 Fitness A. Discuss in pairs. What do you understand by fitness? B. Read the texts below and match them with the pictures here. 185 An active exercise program done to music, often in a class under the guidance of a trainer for maintaining sound physical health. Forna-24, English For Today, Classes XI-XII and Alim The emptying of the mind of thoughts. or the concentration of the mind on one thing, to aid mental or spiritual developments contemplation or relaxation. It broadens the horizon of mind, creates a situation of calm and quiet order ù a bridge between mind and body.
=== PAGE 192 ===
186 C. A discipline that promotes spiritual unity with a supreme being through a system of postures and rituals and creates profound self-contentment. It was practiced by great religious personalities of different religions and is still practiced in many countries. English For Today A place where people do physical exercise with instruments, a rnodem trend in urban localities having separate arrangements for men and women, sometime with a trainer to guide physical fitness. The following statements are based on the text in Section B. Work in pairs and decide which statements arc true and which are false. If any statement is false, correct it. I. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. S. 9. IO. One can perform gym activities with an instrument at borne. Yoga creates a harmony between mind and body. Meditation involves a deep retrospection into one's innermost entity. Conternplation is helpful in increasing one's concentration in academic activities. Rural women are especially fond Of aerobics in Bangladesh. Meditation is a way to 'know thyself'. Religious preachers of ancient times ushered the dawn of civilization by practising meditation. Yoga includes meditation in order to bridge the outer and the inner entities of the souL Yoga can be performed only in open spaces. Gym activities and outdoor sports are the same. D. Read the following extract taken from a book by Francesc Miralles and Hector Garcia that presents readers with life-changing tools to uncover their personal "ikigai"- the Japanese word for òa reason to live'. Instant vacations: Getting there through meditation Training the mind can get us to a place of flow more quickly. Meditation is one way to exercise our mental muscles. There are many types of meditation, but they all have the same objective: calming the mind. observing our thoughts and emotions, and centering our focus on a single object. The basic practice involves sitting with a straight back and focusing on your breath. Anyone can do it, and you feel a difference after just one session. By fixing your attention on the air moving in and out of your nose. you can slow the torrent of thoughts and clear your mental horizons.
=== PAGE 193 ===
Lifestyle The Archer's Secret 187 The winner of the 1988 Olympic gold medal for archery was a seventeen- year-old woman from South Korea. 13,men asked how she prepared, she replied that the most important part of her training was meditating for two hours each If we want to get better at reaching a state of flow, meditation is an excellent antidote to our smartphones and their notifications constantly clamoring for our attention. One of the most common misctakes among people starting to meditate is worrying about doing it "right," achieving absolute mental silence, or reaching "nirvana," The most important thing is to focus on the journey. Since the mind is a constant swirl of thoughts, ideas, and emotions, slowing down the for just a few secondsùcan help us feel more rested and leave us with a sense Of clarity. In fact, one of the things we learn in the practice of meditation is not to worry about anything that flits across our mental screen. The idea of killing our boss might flash into our mind, but we simply label it as a thought and let it pass like a cloud, without judging or rejecting it. It is only a thoughtùone of thc sixty thousand we have every day, according to some experts. Meditation generates alpha and theta brain waves. For those experienced in meditations these waves appear right away, While it might take a half hour for a beginner to experience them. These relaxing brain waves are the ones that are activated right before we fall asleep, as we lie in the sun, or right after taking a bot bath. We all carry a spa with us everywhere we go. It's just a matter of knowing how to get inùsomething anyone can do, with a bit of practice. Taken from: Ikigai: The Japanese Secret to a Long and Jlappy life
=== PAGE 194 ===
English For Today E. The words in the box below are taken from the text. Fill in the blanks by writing the word that matches the definition. flow, centrifuge. nirvana, mental horizons. alpha and theta brain waves 1. A state of complete tranquility or bliss. 2. A type of brain wave associated with relaxation. 3. A process of spinning that separates particles from liquids. 4. The state of being in a productive, effortless state of mind. 5. The extent of one's cognitive or perceptual awareness. F. The writer suggests that meditation can be beneficial for anyone, even if practiced imperfectly. The basic meditation exercise involves sitting upright and focusing on your breath as it moves in and out of your body. Ilow about trying a one-minute meditation session with your classmates? Your teacher can time the session and guide you on when to stop. Instructions: o Close your eyes and attempt to clear your mind of all thoughts. o Take deep, slow, and steady breaths. o Focus solely on the process of your breath moving in and out of your body. o No peeking! Alter the session, answer the following questions: i. Did you notice any changes in your feelings and thoughts after the session? ii. Were you successful in clearing your mind of all thoughts? Discuss how easy or difficult it was for you to focus. iii. Do you think practicing meditation regularly could impact your daily life? Explain how.
=== PAGE 195 ===
Lifestyle G. Fill in the blanks with the correct preposition from the box below: in during at for for on to by 1S9 his i. iii. iv. vi. We all went a walk to clear our minds after the stressful day. He started meditating concentration. The session lasted Meditation is beneficial the mornings to improve 10 minutes, but it felt much shorter. people of all ages. everyone's surprise, the beginner quickly reached nirvana. Ikigai can be achieved anyone, regardless of age. vii. The workshop will be held viii.Meditation can help you relax H. Group work 2:00 p.m. torn01Tow. stressful situations. Imagine you and your friends are launching a meditation centre that will offer sessions for corporate employees to help them manage work-related sUess. In groups offive, design a leafletùeither hand-written or printedùto promote your centre. Use details from the extract "Instant Vacations: Getting There Through Meditation" along with your own ideas.
=== PAGE 196 ===
190 English For Today Lesson 5 Consumerism Look at the pictures. What is common among them? B. Read the text. We spend money for different reasons. We buy food, clothes or everyday essentials, pay for different services, entertain people. travel to places, help others in need or invest in business and thus spend money every day tn fact, spending is a part of our life. Spending may make us happy or unhappy depending on how and why we spend. When we spend money on things that we need and within our limit, it is good. When it becomes a compulsive behaviour, it makes life stressful. Unnecessary spending or spending beyond one's means has some bad effects. For one thing, it may lead to financial ruin or debt, and for another, it may create unhappiness within families. People who overspend are never satisfied with what they have. They always rush for brands, fashion items, designer clothes etc. Over a period Of time it becomes an addiction which may eventually create psychological problems. Nowadays consumer items are displayed in stores or in advertisements in ways that they create a feeling of immediate need for them. We are constantly tempted to buy, use or consume things even when we do not have a genuine need. We all need to be careful here. Salespersons often encourage customers to buy things by flattering them. 'This is a perfect match for you, they would say, or 'You look so stunning in that dress. ' Never forget, they say the same thing to most of their customers. Tt is better not to be persuaded by such words. They use
=== PAGE 197 ===
Lifestyle 191 C. these words to please the customers as the more a customer buys, the higher the profit is. Overspending is not only related to shopping, it applies to other activities as well such as eating out. Many people buy too many items to eat in a restaurant. They can eat only some of them and Lhe rest are wasted. It's not a responsible attitude. We cannot simply waste food because we have money to buy it, Young people in a shopping mall often look at an item on display and think 'Oh I must buy this. I really need this. ' They may not have the money needed in their wallet. So they use credit cards but using them is like taking a loan. If they are not careful, the loans increase which might lead thetn to a debt-trap. Sometimes children insist on buying things that their parents cannot pay without stretching their budget. This may happen because the children 's friends also have them. It'snot fair as it becomes a burden for the parents. Finally, don't get trapped by the glossy advertisements on television or the Internet. You should rather ask yourself: "Do I need diis?" The best way to control the habit of spending in not to think 'What I need', but 'Can I do without it? ò Questions 1. How does overspending make life difficult? 2. What difference do you notice between 'I need this' and 'Can I do without 3. Why does the author discourage buying with credit cards? Do you agree with the author's argument? Why/Why not? Read the following cases and write an article for the youth page in a newspaper suggesting what should bc done. Naila has fifty sets of dresses and still she longs for more. She has some dresses that she didlft wear in the last few months. She didn't have any occasion to wear them. Pikul went to Cox's Bazar with his family on a vacation. He was unhappy as the hotel was not a 4 or 5 star one, Tahnia is a true shopper! She feels bad if her parents do not give her all the money she wants to spend- She loves spending more than anything.
=== PAGE 198 ===
192 D. E. English For Today All over the world spending is on the rise. Below is a chart that compares shopping trends in Australia in 2010 with those in 2015. Read the chart and the analysis of the trends and figures that follow. 2010 2015 Electric appliances Food & Beverage 2 % Home Fumi5hing3 22% Video Gurnes Giff Items Books Electric appliances Food & Beverage 22% Home Fu-rmshmgs | 9% Video Games 8% Gift Items Books The pie charts compare the online retail shopping trends in Australia in 2010 with those in 2015. Overall, electronic products, food and furniture cornprised the highest percentage of online sales in Australia in both years. According to the illustration, electric appliances accounted for 27% of online retail sale in Australia in 2010, which was followed by horne furnishing and food and beverage with 22 and 21 per cent respectively. Video games purchased by Australian consumers cornprised 19% of total online sales in this year. Finally. gift and book sales accounted for 7% and 4% of online retail sales respectively in 2010. After half a decade, sales of electric products increased by 5% and comprised one-third of the total online sales in 2015. E-commerce of food and beverage items slightly increased while a nominal decrease could be observed in the trade ratio of furniture, Video games became less popular among Australian online consumers as their sales volume decreased by more than 50 percent while a surge could be noticed in the sale of gift items. Books as online retail products were sold more in percentage terms in 2015 than in 2010. (Source: https ://www.ieIts-mentor.con▄writing-sampIe/academic-writing- task-I /59-resource/2997-recent-ieIts-graph-with-answers) Work in groups. Make a graph showing the increase or decrease in your family's expenses on food items, utility bills, transport and mobile phone charges in the last six months.
